

  HIDEOUS DESTRUCTOR - A WEAPONS AND MONSTERS MOD FOR GZDOOM

  NOW AVAILABLE FOR FREEDOOM


Hideous Destructor is primarily designed around the story, setting and events express or implied in the original Doom and Doom II: Hell on Earth ("Doom"). This setting, for obvious copyright reasons, has no continuity whatsoever with any story, setting or events express or implied in Freedoom. As such, much of Hideous Destructor's lore that relies on Doom makes no sense.

This document contains the changes necessary to bring HD's lore in line with what is shown in Freedoom. As always, there is NO continuity between what is going on here and what is going on in Doom, which means that all names, organizations, etc. that the two settings still have in common will, in each respective universe, simply be what it is, and the commonality would be totally unnoticed by anyone in either setting.

For brevity's sake, passages are not replaced if the only thing changed is a name. Just take the names here and mentally substitute as appropriate.


General
While interplanetary travel and commerce is commonplace, Earth remains the known galaxy's capital when it comes to arms design and manufacturing, and the local geopolitics remains unpleasantly relevant to the daily life of the so-called outworlds. Years are in Anno Pacis Americanorum, so please add 1776 years to get the Anno Domini year.


UAC
All references to UAC, Union Aerospace, etc. are deemed to refer to The Universal Anthroposoterium Cybernetics Group, a publicly traded interplanetary arms manufacturing conglomerate. They are not related to AGM but they work together in many infrastructure and defence contracts.


BFG
Tapping into the eldritch power of the Ancients using adaptive-AI computer-assisted spacetime magick, the Botis Field Glyph, Mark 9 was part a greater work that would have made AGM the single biggest player in the energy market for centuries.

Unluckily for them, the proposed energy source caused the rout of civilization and the massacre of mankind - with the resulting lawsuits likely to result in a slightly smaller profit than imagined. Luckily for you, the weaponized "Kurz" version of the device is just small enough for one space marine to carry and deliver the horror the horror back to the enemy.

Background: According to the AGM's internal documents*, the Botis fields were discovered by Dr. Graf Botis in a freak particle beam weapons testing accident during a routine military exercise in Pluto-Charon orbital space. The field appeared to generate some kind of plasma-like or energy-like substance that seemed to behave alternately like a gas and a subatomic particle. Unable to properly characterize it, it was mentioned in Dr. Botis' notes as "Gretchenfrage" as a placeholder pending further study. (This was shortened in later notes to "Frage" and eventually "Frag" in common anglophone parlance.)

Under certain conditions (Dr. Botis found the shape and alignment of the lab to be a major factor) it was discovered that Botis fields could be used to recharge power cells almost indefinitely, as though time itself were being reversed; AGM kept the specifics substantially out of the public eye for years while quadrillions of dollars were diverted to energy research and an entire infrastructure was built across numerous systems - and subsequent discovery of the Ancients' large-scale teleportation, on top of the clean, renewable energy source, surpassed the wildest dreams of researchers and executives alike.

*Leaked by a rogue junior solicitor during discovery in one of many class action suits following the invasion (with the result that residents of the Third Holy Russian Empire, Neo-Moose Jaw, Proxima Centauri II BFG-Babuin Station XVI, all AGM Stations orbiting Proxima Centauri, Betelgeuse Stations I through III and the City of Edmonton, as well as Her Majesty of England, Wales and the Near Side of the Moon in her personal capacity, were unable to recover against AGM or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates under any proceedings respecting these invasions). Nothing is known about where this solicitor went afterwards.


Stormtrooper
"The green flash in the sky. His demons were here all along - in our hearts and souls - just waiting for a sign from him. And now they're destroying our world." Twisted and corrupted by the daemoniac energies now uncontrollably pouring into this world, these shambling husks wander out to the front, hoping to infiltrate enemy lines and tenderize hostile forces a bit before the Tyrant's real army steamrolls its way in.


Undead Homeboy
"The cyborg is a creature in a post-gender world; it has no truck with bisexuality, pre-oedipal symbiosis, unalienated labour, or other seductions to organic wholeness through a final appropriation of all the powers of the parts into a higher unity. In a sense, the cyborg has no origin story in the Western sense - a 'final' irony since the cyborg is also the awful apocalyptic telos of the 'West's' escalating dominations of abstract individuation, an ultimate self untied at last from all dependency, a man in space." The slums of the understations are not a happy place. Angry young men and women fused with blood-red nanobot tattoos, permanently grafted vacuum-resistant oxygenizer masks and more than their years' worth of violence and disillusionment have long prowled the margins of respectable society. When given a chance to break into the traditional territory of that respectable society, their undead remains, still scarred in both brain and body, adapted and weaponized that disillusionment well. They still don't have money for long guns or armour, though.


Serpentipedes
These gibbering carcinoids were the dominant species from one of the Tyrant's first conquered worlds, the remnant of ancient masters of arcane energy corrupted and diminished by their cruelty and hatred. They are now often seen bustling about in disorganized bands, unthinkingly eating anything edible-looking they find and burning the rest.


Frag Containment Storage Cell
Throughout its jursdiction AGM had stored hundreds of barrels of a special compound designed to hold Frag in a concentrated and transportable form. The Tyrant's minions took a liking to this practice, forced the recipe out of the technicians they captured, and starting putting it everywhere to help them establish a foothold in the Terran worlds. Now there are millions and millions of barrels of this volatile substance (nicknamed "nukage") stashed across humanity's various planetary and orbital territories. It may be centuries before anyone can even begin to fathom the ecological damage. And now it seems that the magickal properties of Frag can take possession of the barrels themselves. Which means that among all these polluting barrels of crap, we've also got thousands of shuffling metal monstrosities with balefire attacks and an agenda to kill all humans...

Frag Containment Oxidation Processor
Nukage sometimes needs to be "aired out" to increase its energy density at the cost of some of the power being released into the air. Sometimes these oxidation units are left unattended. Sometimes the resulting mix of symlinked mana, semifluid polymer alloy and decaying ceramic melds into a freakish fire-belching abomination against all that is good and true. Fortunately, it is quite destructible.


The Begotten
Billions of unnatural, burning spawn have emerged from the Tyrant over the centuries. Some eventually bear fruit and multiply, eventually finding a world or series of worlds tilled, harvested, fertilized with blood and Frag and ready for planting. It is not know how many of them are typically spawned before this happens: some geological samples taken from the Tyrant's cave and battlefield counts suggest anywhere between 1 and 5 trillion.

Hive Pit
There are more Begotten than one might think. They hide in the dark unseen places of space, where the space-time folds into crevices and crannies unfathomed by man. They can drag these holes around by means unknown to us, gathering together into spheres of ossified fire, occasionally releasing one of its own in collective defence - or to find prey.


Dark Soldier
The former dominant species of another of the Tyrant's conquered worlds capable of fire magick. These heavyset goblinoids can fling them with much greater force than the serpentipedes, and focus them into much greater mass, suggesting they have experienced a shorter time of degradation since their reality had been assimilated.


Combat Slug
Armed with a pair of grossly inefficient gasoline-fueled plasma launchers, these formless cyborgs can tear through armies with the right guidance.


Pain Lord
The Tyrant's trusted lieutenants in the Phobos war. Able to withstand ludicrous amounts of damage without slowing down, the pain lord can channel its balefire to force nearby, dormant Begotten to its aid.


Flame Bringer
"Yet this is held true by the wise of Eressëa, that all those of the Quendi who came into the hands of Melkor, ere Utumno was broken, were put there in prison, and by slow arts of cruelty were corrupted and enslaved; and thus did Melkor breed the hideous race of the Orcs in envy and mockery of the Elves, of whom they were afterwards the bitterest foes." A miserable shadow of their once glorious past, these spectral projections of the High Ancients have been warped and deteriorated across the span of incomprehensible eons. They detest the Tyrant they serve, forever bound by a blood oath made when our Moon was still molten hot in the sky. The projected memory of masters of life and sub-creation, their only remaining creative power is to restore life and limb to the fallen, for the sole purpose of continuing their own dark master's battle.

Light Bearer
There are rumours about that some of the High Ancients' projections retaining some memory of their sapience, wishing to work with the newer and the dying worlds even after eons of dark damnation. Others say that these are no longer Ancient simulacra at all, but angels sent to mankind's aid. Perhaps none of the proposed answers is true; perhaps they are all true, or there are as many answers as there are these friendly projections. They're not saying anything, though.


The Tyrant
This eldritch fossilized horror is the mortal avatar of the Tyrant, a vast cosmic mind that births its nightmare armies from its invincible stone skull like a billion crawling, tentacled Pallas Athenae.
