
  SYNTHETIC DEITIES - A WEAPON AND MONSTER MOD FOR HERETIC


	I. BACKSTORY

"And Lord Korax said to His followers, Be not afraid, though all the day long your oppressors may slay you as yet, for We shall send you a helper, who shall rule among you as His own, and His name is D'Sparil. And so He ascended into the opening of the Firmament, to sit at the right hand of His blessed Brother Eidolon, to bring the Good News to all the worlds. Glory to the Brother, the Brother and the All-Holy Brother (+E), who tore down the gates of Heaven, long sealed shut by the wickedness of the Sidhe and slavery under their candle-ransom, that all might be saved. Let us therefore love one another, as the Brothers love one another in perfect love; and in such love let us offer with selfless joy a sacrifice, and slaughter our enemies upon the holy altar of battle, drive them before the Brothers (+E) and destroy them, and the lamentations of their women and the smoke of their stomachs roasting in hell be a sweet hymn and pleasing aroma to our Lords."

The seven kingdoms are the sapient species in Parthoris:
Gargoyles, humble stewards and defenders of the great forests.
Ghouls, free-willed undead created through a secret hermeneutic of the Tomes of Power, long forbidden and lost.
Weredragons, savage masters of the lonely caves and mountains of the desert.
Ophidians, stout, hardy, reclusive men of the east with almost enough lore to rival the Sidhe.
Maulotaurs, honourable giants from the far south, sons of ancient kings and heroes of renown.
The Pod Collective, a sapient half-plant, half-fungus levitating network of telepathically connected orbs.
Elves, ancient and powerful spellcasters and workers of artifacts oft glorious and horrific.

For centuries an elite caste of elves known as the Sidhe lived in prosperity, receiving vast amounts of tribute from all the seven kingdoms that lay under their authority. Long ago, through millennia of wisdom locked away in the eldritch Tomes of Power by which the Sidhe blessed every army to victory, they alone mastered the secret of fate, and created the terrible artifacts known as the Seven Candles.

While lit, each Candle would bring wealth and prosperity to the king and the people to whom it was bound, but at a great price: if a Candle should ever be put out, seven years of war and tribulation would befall that kingdom for each year that it prospered under that Candle's flame.

The ghouls were the first to agree to the Sidhe's promise of prosperity; newly formed from the magic of the developing industry surrounding them, they desperately needed the Sidhe's aid to establish themselves and escape the depredations of their neighbours. Soon after they became fruitful and multiplied, and their kind covered the face of Parthoris; and they became men and officers of renown in the governments and armies of the growing Sidhe empire. And many were in awe of the wonders and blessings that befell the ghouls; and after many decades one by one each of the kingdoms agreed to be served by its own Candle.

And with the seven kingdoms bound to the authority of the Elders of the Sidhe, the empire prospered and ruled with an iron fist, and many wonders of art, architecture and weaponry (such as were magically bound that all who touched them were cursed with burns and blindness and painful death, except they be of the High Sidhe who professed fealty to the Elders in their hearts) were fashioned and built during this time. And long did the Sidhe grow in wealth and power, as the other kingdoms were oppressed and enslaved, their lands and seas taken and ravaged for wood and food and stone and metal, the ground of their very ley lines torn asunder and covered in vast pipeline networks leading to the elven kingdom.

And so it was in the days of the Sidhe's greatest hubris, they said to one another, Come, let us build a great ship that floateth upon the aether, that we may cross the firmament and reach Heaven itself, that we may conquer it and plunder it of its unearthly riches. And so our Lords beheld this, and proclaimed, Enough! and Themselves opened the gates of Heaven and slew the conquering army and burned their blasphemous ship, and came down to Parthoris incarnate, and showed many signs to the men of the east who had long suffered cruelly under the Sidhe yoke and were ever at war as their oppressors turned them against each other with lies and slander and the ever-present threat of the Candles. And under the command of the Brothers (+E) the first great battles between the seven kingdoms and the Sidhe empire were won, and a great temple built in Their Name. To this day many of the people of the seven kingdoms keep pieces of ammunition once used in the fell Sidhe weapons (the weapons themselves being bound by Sidhe sorcery and unclean to touch) as reminders of that glorious first victory, and as a relic of the Lords' glory bestowed upon us all.

And so the Brothers (+E) revealed Their glory to all the kingdoms in time, and led all to freedom and victory over the wicked Sidhe; and soon under D'Sparil we marched upon their capital, the so-called City of the Blessed in its opulence and depravity, in full knowledge and defiance of the final threat that the Elders would be forced in their pride and hatred to carry out after centuries of profit through tyranny and subjugation. And so the Elders truly did snuff out each and every Candle in due course, and great calamity befell the armies and their kingdoms beyond as each man of every kingdom was at once driven mad by pestilence and madness and sudden, uncontrolled passions of rage and envy towards his brother, and many died in the ensuing chaos. But in the end the alliance of the seven kingdoms won the day, and the Sidhe were decimated and the remainder driven before our armies and our martyrs into the treacherous vastness of the western sea. The city gate's front sign, defaced by the victorious army with one word changed to something more suitable for our erstwhile oppressors, remains to this day.

It is said that in the years following that great victory the Sidhe found another continent to the far west, and there they beheld others of their kind, unlettered savages who lived in peace with their neighbours and their world and knew nothing of the wickedness of their brothers in the old world. It is said that the Sidhe quickly subjugated them, and captured their women to be their brides and harlots, and used their men as cheap labour to try to rebuild their empire. It is said that some of the Sidhe in doing so found themselves drawn to the religion of their new slaves, which professed love and forgiveness under an all-merciful God manifest in three persons not unlike our Lords. It is said further that a band of these converts sought to travel back to our continent, as a diplomatic party seeking forgiveness from the Brothers (+E); but one of their number, named Corvus, reverted to his true Sidhe nature and preached that this God (the savages apparently could not count and never clarified if their God was one or three) only granted forgiveness of the Sidhe's own sins after they were washed away in the blood of the empire's enemies. And so it is said, after much vain preaching and much quarrelling with his neighbours, when the time came for the voyage he falsely repented, hid his true intentions for a while, and boarded with the rest of this delegation; then quarreled with them on the voyage again and was declared anathema and put under chains; but they could not control him, and he escaped into the wilderness, eventually to find his way into the City of the Damned, murder and bloodlust - and the belief that it was all God's will and not his own twisted imaginations - forever carved into his foul heart. But be glad, as these people speak only vain and violent fantasies to scare unruly children, and no such thing has happened; our Lord D'Sparil in His singularly divine wisdom would allow no such thing.
